Let's look at how our robot code project is structured.

!!! note
    We'll be assuming that our robot code package is `org.team199.robot` and our code lives in `src/main/java/org/team199` but honestly the package naming scheme varies by year and by team, and it doesn't matter as long as you keep it consistent for a project.

A robot project structure generally looks something like this:
```
src/main/java/org/team199/
  └── robot2020/
  |   |   Main.java
  |   |   Robot.java
  |   |   RobotContainer.java
  |   |   Constants.java
  |   |
  |   └── subsystems/
  |   |   |   Drivetrain.java
  |   |   |   Intake.java
  |   |   |   Climber.java
  |   |   |   Lift.java
  |   |
  |   └── commands/
  |       |   Drive.java
  |       |   Climb.java
  |       |   RunIntake.java
  |       |   RunEject.java
  |       |   MoveLift.java
  |       |   Autonomous.java
  |
  └── lib/
      |   MotorControllerFactory.java
      |   FancyMathStuff.java
```
It's a lot, so let's break it down. This is an intro to our robot structure, so we won't go into specifics on how to actually write the code until the next section.

## Main.java
This file is autogenerated, and there is rarely any reason to touch this file at all. It contains the classic `main` method, which is run at startup and starts up the rest of the robot code. 

## Robot.java
This file is the control center of the robot. It has the methods that are called to run the robot.

## RobotContainer.java
This is where we create and store the objects for the subsystems, then set up all of the default commands and joystick commands that the robot uses to operate.

## Constants.java
This file contains all of the numbers that don't change and are relevant to the whole robot. This includes all ports and joystick buttons, which correlate to motor controllers, solenoids, and commands in the code.

## Subsystems
Subsystems are where much of the logic of the code is stored. In each subsystem, there are methods that perform certain actions, such as running a motor. These methods are then called in Commands as part of a larger process. For example, a method in the Climber subsystem could be used to retrieve the height of a lift, which can then be called in one of the Climber commands. The subsystem classes contain the Objects for the motor controllers and solenoids. Constants for the specific subsystem are also stored in the subsystem class. For example, a constant such as the speed of a drivetrain motor should be stored in the Drivetrain subsystem, as it’s only relevant to the Drivetrain.

## Commands
Commands are sections of code that define general actions taken by the robot. Usually, they don’t contain detailed code about the function of the robot’s mechanical parts, such as how far a motor turns or its direction (these finer details are usually placed in subsystems, which commands then reference to give function to each of the robot’s mechanical components). Instead, commands code for actions taken by the robot’s mechanisms. Examples of these actions could include lifting an arm or turning wheels that intake a game piece. 

## Lib
The `lib` folder is where we would store the complex calculations, wrappers, or other things that do not directly interact with the robot, but are rather called on by commands or subsystems to assist in their execution. Stuff in this folder would be valuable code that we would actually want to keep and develop on from one year to another, such as drivetrain characterization, motion profiling, or swerve drive code.

Most of this code is stored in the repository [lib199](https://github.com/DeepBlueRobotics/lib199) which is included as a submodule to our main robot code. This makes it easy to include in new robot projects and other codebases.

## MotorControllerFactory.java
This is the most-used file in the lib folder. It stores methods for creating the objects for the motor controllers that are used in the subsystems.